---
layout: post
title: An Alternative Training Strategy for Convolutional Neural Networks
usemathjax: true
---

I, with my PhD advisors, have a conference paper that is accepted to [EUSIPCO 2019](http://eusipco2019.org/) in which we propose a method for training convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Although we propose this method for the spectral-spatial classification of hyperspectral images (which is a pixel-wise classification problem), it can be applied to any problem solved by a CNN.

Most of the current work in deep learning literature is based on gradient descent. Our method uses a second order optimization algorithm for the last layer, and the standard procedure for the former layers, which consists of backprop & SGD. Although it is not so popular to use second order methods in neural networks these days, our results show that it can be useful.

We basically replace the last layer, which consists of a fully connected layer and a softmax function, with Approximate Sparse Multinomial Logistic Regression model **[1]**. This layer is trained by a second order algorithm, with sparsity priors on weights, and approximations in order to fight with intractable equations. Although we call the whole thing a "model", from another point of view, this can be seen as just a new training strategy for standard, generic, good old CNNs. It also resembles Bayesian Neural Networks; but instead of a Gaussian likelihood we have a mixture of multinomial logistic models. In this model, like in our previous work **[2]**, mixture proportions are spatially-varying, which means that for each pixel these proportions vary. This is useful for incorporating the spatial information into the model - we combine spectral and spatial information in a Markov random field-like graphical model.

Currently I am working on a more detailed analysis of this method, and I am hoping to write a journal paper out of it as a clousure to my PhD studies.

I am going to update this post with details and the paper itself after I present the work at EUSIPCO in September. Until then, I am open to discussions.

UPDATE: Slides are [here](files/EUSIPCO_2019_Presentation.pdf).

**[1]** Koray Kayabol, "Approximate Sparse Multinomial Logistic Regression for Classification," in IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. doi: 10.1109/TPAMI.2019.2904062

**[2]** Koray Kayabol, Sezer Kutluk, "Bayesian classification of hyperspectral images using spatially-varying Gaussian mixture model", Digital Signal Processing, Volume 59, 2016, Pages 106-114, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2016.08.010.
